# Changelog

## [0.2.30] (2024-11-02)

### Features

- Updated `fallbackMiddleware.ts` error pages are now always sent unless the request's headers accept text/html.
- Reduced the maximum an availability slot can be away from the hangout conclusion from a year down to 6 months.
- Improved the overall look and structure of the sections implemented so far in `hangout.html`.
- Improved the look of the hangout phone navbar in `hangout.html`.
- Added an `Events` button to both navbars in `hangout.html`.
- Changed the light theme background to `bg-secondary` and added a shadow for both `InfoModal` and `ConfirmModal`.
- Added a small simple shadow to popup messages generated by `popup.ts`.
- Removed the hangout phone navbar header in `hangout.html`, and fixed a ham-menu button at the bottom right instead.
- Improved font size throughout the app.
- Improved the look of the footer.


### Code Refactoring

- Moved repetitive classes used with checkbox buttons to `main.scss` to avoid unnecessary clutter.


### Bug Fixes

- Fixed the the hangout phone navbar overlay shifting off the top when scrolling down on mobile browsers.


## [0.2.29] (2024-10-29)

### Features

- Added `initDb.ts` to create any missing tables when the server is initialized.
  - This will also help keep track of any database schema changes.
- Removed buttons meant to navigate the user to the votes section in `hangout.html`, which is no longer needed.
- Implemented sorting UI for the suggestions section in `hangout.html`.
- Added UI elements to allow for liking a suggestion in `hangout.html`.


## [0.2.28] (2024-10-26)

### Features

- Fully implemented the availability section UI for `hangout.html`.
- Fully implemented the suggestions section UI for `hangout.html`.


## [0.2.27] (2024-10-23)

### Features

- Fully implemented the UI the dashboard and navbar UI for `hangout.html`.


## [0.2.26] (2024-10-18)

### Code Refactoring

- Improved TS configuration throughout the app to improve type safety, and updated a few files to align with these changes.
- Renamed createHangout modules and their function for improved readability.
- Added a drop shadow to the hero's SVG in `index.html`.
- Added `hangout.html` and implemented a portion of the dashboard.


### Bug Fixes

- Fixed error message when the guest's username and password are identical appearing below the username input instead of the password input.


## [0.2.25] (2024-10-15)

### Features

- Improved error code SVGs in `errorPages`.
- Improved the bottom navbar.
- Improved footers.
- Added aria labels to utility buttons without any text to improve accessability.


## [0.2.24] (2024-10-14)

### Features

- Added standard 404, 403, and 401 error pages.
- Added `fallBackMiddleware.ts` and implemented basic 404 functionality for now.


## [0.2.23] (2024-10-12)

### Features

- Split `signUpForm.ts` into multiple, easily-managed modules and improved code quality.
- Improved signup validation to not allow passwords to be identical to usernames.


### Code Refactoring

- Improved the phrasing of the `InfoModal` button responsible for taking the user back to their account if they're signed in for both the recovery and sign up forms. 


### Bug Fixes

- Fixed request timer not showing up properly in the last recovery stage in the account recovery form.
- Fixed &timestamp in some email links leading to &time being perceiving the &time part as an x symbol.


## [0.2.22] (2024-10-11)

### Features

- Added a simple catch-all middleware for unexpected API endpoints.
- Improved form shadow throughout the app.
- Added a slight expansion to SliderInput thumbs when being dragged.


### Documentation Changes

- Removed unnecessary lines from CHANGELOG.md.


### Bug Fixes

- Fixed `SliderInput.ts` causing issues when a device has both a mouse and a touchscreen.
  - Also removed unnecessary functions.
- Fixed the last button in botNav having a right border.
- Fixed hero section in `index.html` overflowing and breaking the layout on widths larger than `830px` but with a small height.


## [0.2.21] (2024-10-10)

### Features

- Updated PATCH `accounts/details/updateEmail/confirm` to reset the request_timestamp value when suspending further requests.
  - This will ensure that further requests are denied for 24 hours from when the request was suspended, not initially created.
- Improved the phrasing in `getEmailUpdateWarningTemplate`.
- Added an optional `options` parameter to `InfoModal.display()`.
  - Simplified InfoModal implementation where applicable.
- Added a popup for users trying to sign into a locked account.
- Improved redirection logic in a few modules.


### Chore Changes

- Removed leftover `temp.ts` under the `accountRecovery` modules.


## [0.2.20] (2024-10-10)

### Features

- Improved Axios return types.
- Reworked the previous step button left arrow SVG in the `create-hangout.html` form to a chevron for an improved look.
- Improved the margin between sub-forms and form navigation in `create-hangout.html`.
- Updated `SliderInput.ts` to disable scrolling on touch devices while `dragSlider()` is being called to make it more useable.
- Increased font size for inputs on screen sizes `830px` and smaller to `16px` to prevent the auto-zoom behavior on touch devices without resorting to `user-scalable=no` and any unexpected potential behavior it might cause.


### Bug Fixes

- Fixed incorrect use of bind in `SliderInput.ts` causing `stopDrag()` to be called for every instance of `SliderInput` that has been interacted with.


## [0.2.19] (2024-10-08)

### Features

- Fully implemented `account-recovery.html` and the recovery process.
  - Renamed POST `accounts/recovery/start` to `accounts/recovery/sendEmail`.
  - Removed `latest_attempt_timestamp` from the `account_recovery` table, as the recovery logic has changed in the meantime from when it was added.
- Updated the `AxiosErrorResponseData` global type to accept a potential `resData` object with string keys and unknown values.
- Renamed `infoModal.ts` to `InfoModal.ts` and reworked it into a static class.
- Slightly increased the width of both InfoModal and ConfirmModal.
- `InfoModal.ts` and `ConfirmModal.ts` now split the description into separate HTML paragraph elements when ' \n ' (whitespace included) is present in the description string.
- Both the InfoModal and ConfirmModal now prime their buttons to be next in the tabindex chain to improve user experience.
  - This also helps with preventing form submission or other actions from taking place despite the modals blocking the window.
- Reworked `LoadingModal.ts` to now create and append the LoadingModal element when called, instead of being a static part of every HTML page.
  - Renamed `hide()` to `remove()` as a result.
- Users attempting to sign into their account after it has been locked  will now have an infoModal alongside the error popup to make their next step clear.
- Users attempting to sign into an unverified account will now have an InfoModal displayed alongside the error popup to make their next step clear.
- Slightly improved the code efficiency handling the switch between two sub-forms in `create-hangout.html` and `sign-in.html`.
- Added an  to make sure the user is informed when their account is locked due to too many failed sign in attempts.
- Improved the text in the final stage of the hangout creation form in `create-hangout.html`.
- Reworked title-cased sub-form titles in `create-hangout.html` to be sentence-cased in alignment with the rest of the app.
- Renamed `isValidToken()` to `isValidUniqueToken()`.
- Renamed `formState.ts` in `modules/createHangout` to `hangoutCreationFormState.ts`.


### Code Refactoring

- Renamed DELETE `accounts/friends/remove` router to DELETE `accounts/friends/manage/remove` to improve clarity and consistency.


### Bug Fixes

- Fixed the background in the account-guest toggle button in `sign-in.html` shrinking by a pixel when moving.
- Fixed an edge case in `signUpForm.ts` where `detectSignedInUser()` would display a modal asking the user to sign out to proceed, while a verification attempt is made due to a verification link being detected.
- Fixed `InfoModal.ts` (previously `infoModal.ts`) attempting to remove an existing ConfirmModal instead of an existing InfoModal, when `display()` (previously `displayInfoModal()`) is called.
- Fixed sign up verification failing due to verification codes not being capitalized before a verification request is made.
- Fixed `isValidUniqueToken()` (previously `isValidToken()`) not validating the token's length or characters.
- Fixed `getVerificationData()` in `signUpForm.ts` not correctly handling substrings without a `=` in the query string parameters, and renamed it to `getVerificationLinkDetails()`.


## [0.2.18] (2024-10-01)

### Features

- Improved the email validation regex to allow more than 2 Top Level Domains.


### Code Refactoring

- Improved how parameters are passed into functions in `emailService.ts` and `emailTemplates.ts`.


### Bug Fixes

- Fixed account verification links pointing to an incorrect html page.


### Build Changes

- Removed `process.env.NODE_ENV` from `webpack.config.js` as it didn't make sense, and replaced with a `buildEnvironment` variable instead.


## [0.2.17] (2024-09-30)

### Features

- Added a `created_on_timestamp` column to the `account_verification` table and updated the relevant functions.
- Fully implemented sign up functionality through `sign-in.html` and `signUp.ts`.


### Bug Fixes

- Fixed `archiveHangouts()` in `hangoutCronJobs.ts` incorrectly attempting to insert the `hangout_title` as `title`.
- Fixed `ConfirmModal.ts` not correctly creating a description.
- Fixed buttons without `type="button"` causing form-submission issues.


## [0.2.16] (2024-09-27)

### Features

- Sign out functionality fully implemented into both navbars.
- Signing out through the navbars now creates a confirm modal to complete the action.
- Removed `getAuthToken.ts` to avoid an unnecessary abstraction.
- Clicking Enter while an input is focused in the final step of the hangout creation form in `create-hangout.html` will now submit the form.


### Bug Fixes

- Fixed unwanted form submission when clicking the password reveal button for the guest password confirm input in `create-hangout.html`.


### Build Changes

- Removed `axios` from the backend, which was leftover from previous patches and wasn't used.


## [0.2.15] (2024-09-25)

### Features

- Moved the contents of `signIn.ts` to `signInForm.ts`, which is now imported as a module.
- Completed sign in functionality in `signInForm.ts`.
- Added `getAuthToken.ts` to fetch authTokens and automatically sign the user out if they have an invalid authToken in cookies.
- Added `confirmModal.ts`.
- Improved the email validation regex and removed the room for potential abuse the previous regex had.
- Slightly reduced the size of the account menu icon in the top navbar.


### Code Refactoring

- Removed some redundancies from the methods in `Cookies.ts`.


## [0.2.14] (2024-09-23)

### Features

- Improved the text content on the homepage.
- Added a mandatory `hangout_title` column to the `hangouts` table, and updated the necessary endpoints.
- Added a mandatory hangout title field for the hangout creation form in `create-hangout.html`.
- Added a password confirmation field when a guest signs up to create a hangout in `create-hangout.html`.
- Slightly rearranged the flow of the hangout creation form in `create-hangout.html`.
- Added sign out functionality.
- Improved some of the functions in `validation.ts`.
- Added `sign-in.html`, implemented its UI, and a portion of the functionality.


### Bug Fixes

- Fixed hangout step sliders not updating the form state with their values.


## [0.2.13] (2024-09-21)

### Features

- Completely reworked both navbars.
- Added a full favicon collection as well as a manifest for all html files.


### Bug Fixes

- Fixed a few minor typing issues in `hangoutCronJobs.ts`.


## [0.2.12] (2024-09-20)

### Features

- Added a left arrow icon to next to the previous step button in the hangout creation form.
- Improved the look and functionality of both navbars.
- Reworked the top navbar to now include a better signed-in menu with user-relevant links.
- Reduced ongoing hangouts limit from 20 down to 12.


## [0.2.11] (2024-09-19)

### Features

- Improved how POST `accounts/signUp` checks if username is already taken.
- Improved error type checking in all routers.
- Improved authToken validation for requests in `accounts.ts`.


## [0.2.10a] (2024-09-19)

### Bug Fixes

- Fixed not all updates being pushed in the last patch.


## [0.2.10] (2024-09-19)

### Features

- Changed account sign up for registered users to now require an email address instead of a username to improve security.
- Fully reworked `create-hangout.html`.
- Added a `reason` key-value pair in error responses for some of API's endpoints to improve the front-end flow.
  - Further improvements to be expected in future patches.
- Added a `globals.d.ts` file to share global types in `client`.
- Added `validation.ts` as a global module in `client`.


### Bug Fixes

- Fixed a bug in `SliderInput.ts` where event listeners weren't being removed properly due to an incorrect use of binding.
- Fixed DOMRect issues with `SliderInput.ts` caused by elements being hidden or moving around in the hangout creation form.


### Code Refactoring

- Updated the text and border error color for the light theme to improve border error visibility.
- Updated some of the error messages in `accounts.ts`.
- Slightly improved `Cookies.ts`.
- Fixed navigating the form not updating the current step number above the progress bar.
- Changed the color of informative popups to now have a neutral background.


## [0.2.9] (2024-09-14)

**Note:**: Development was paused for 9 days due to personal reasons.

### Features

- Redesigned the hangout creation form, and started with reworking its code.
- Implemented form navigation for the hangout creation form. 


### Code Refactoring

- Renamed `hangoutFormConfig.ts` to `hangoutFormStepsConfig.ts`
- The progress bar in the hangout form is now filled by the percentage value of the current step divided by the total number of steps.
  - This change makes it more intuitive for users, despite not being technically completely accurate.
- Reworked all 200ms transition properties to 150ms.


### Bug Fixes

- Potential fix for transitions causing dark theme colors to flash for a moment before the light theme is applied.


## [0.2.8] (2024-09-04)

### Features

- **New cron jobs:**
  - `archiveHangouts()`:
    - Runs every hour.
    - Archives hangouts, as well as their respective members, if they have been concluded for a week or longer.
    - Archived hangouts contain basic information about the hangout and the overall conclusion.
    - The function isn't extremely efficient, and is subject to changes in the future, but will do for now.
- Moving on to the front end after this patch. Rate limiting will be implemented later. 

## [0.2.7] (2024-09-03)

### Features

- **New endpoints:**
  - DELETE `suggestions/leader/delete`: Allows the hangout leader to delete unwanted suggestions during the suggestions step.
  - DELETE `votes/clear`: Clears a member's votes unless the hangout is concluded.
- Hangouts can no longer be progressed to the voting step if they contain no suggestions.
- Reduced the number of suggestions a member can make from 10 down to 3.
  - This change is meant to prevent members from being overwhelmed with choices during the voting step.
- Suggestions can no longer be deleted after the suggestions step is completed.
  - Suggestions remain editable in both the suggestions and voting steps.
  - This is done to prevent unwanted edge cases as well as potential confusion within the hangout.
- reduced the number of allowed ongoing hangouts from 30 down to 30.
- Changed request for `hangouts/details/members/claimLeadership` from PUT to POST.


### Code Refactoring

- Renamed `isValidHangoutIDString()` to `isValidHangoutID()`.
- Fixed hangout member ID validation not being well implemented in `hangouts.ts`.
- Improved the efficiency of all endpoints by using an INNER JOIN where appropriate.
- Replaced PUT with PATCH where it makes sense to better align with REST conventions and semantics.


### Bug Fixes

- Fixed a few minor bugs in `hangouts.ts`.
- `availabilitySlots.ts`:
  - Fixed an invalid LEFT JOIN in the POST request under.
  - Fixed an issue where availability slots being updated with identical timestamps didn't return a 409 in the PUT request.


### Documentation Changes

- Added a missing new endpoint in last patch's notes.


## [0.2.6] (2024-08-29)

### Features

- Suggestions are no longer removed if their respective member leaves the hangout.
  - This will improve the user experience, as the member's suggestion might be one others would like to vote for. It also prevents a situation where no suggestions remain during the voting step, rendering the whole hangout pointless.
- Votes are no longer removed if their respective member leaves the hangout, but the hangout has been concluded.
  - This prevents a winning suggestion from losing its spot due to members who've voted for it leaving.
- Reworked PUT `hangoutMembers/details/leaveHangout` to DELETE `hangoutMembers/` to align with the aforementioned reworks.
- A new hangout leader is no longer automatically assigned to a random member. Instead, an option to become the hangout leader is presented to all members, and the first member to click it becomes the new leader.
  - This will prevent situations where a barely active, or inactive, member being randomly assigned as leader.
- Hangouts will remain accessible for 7 days after being concluded, after which they will be archived.
  - Archiving will be introduced in future patches.
- **New endpoints:**
  - DELETE `hangouts/details/members/claimLeadership`: Allows a member to become the hangout leader if the leader has left.


### Bug Fixes

- Fixed `hangoutMembers.ts` having an incorrect number of mysql2 placeholders when creating a new hangout member.


## [0.2.5] (2024-08-24)

### Features

- Hangout requests that change its conclusion timestamp now also delete suggestions with a no-longer valid start timestamp.
- Added a `is_edited` column to the `suggestions` table, which is set to true if a suggestion is at any point edited.
- If a suggestion's title is edited, it will automatically remove any votes it had accumulated to prevent abuse.
- Added a `display_name` column to the `hangout_member` table to better streamline some requests and updates.
- Added a `hangout_logs` table, and implemented logging functionality for relevant hangout-related requests.
- **New cron jobs:**:
  - `concludeNoSuggestionHangouts()`:
    - Concludes hangouts that are within the voting step without any suggestions, and creates a log for it.
    - Runs every minute.


### Bug Fixes

- Fixed `hangoutMembers.ts` not returning the hangout member ID when users join a hangout.


### Code Refactoring

- Slight readability improvements to `availabilitySlots.ts`.


### Documentation Changes

- Fixed incorrect date in last patch.


## [0.2.4a] (2024-08-23)

### Bug Fixes

- Fixed missing build files in `dist`.


## [0.2.4] (2024-08-23)

### Features

- Reworked the suggestions router and table to now support a time slot for when the suggestion is supposed to take place.
- Added time slot validation functions into `suggestionValidation.ts`.
  - These functions are nearly identical to the ones in `availabilitySlotValidation.ts`, but adding an extra layer of abstraction solely for time slots is not worth the additional complexity it will bring to the abstraction hierarchy, at least for now.
- **New endpoints:**
  - POST `votes/`: Adds a vote for its respective hangout member.
  - DELETE `votes/`: Removes a vote.
- Members have a limit of 3 votes per hangout.
- Members can't vote for a suggestion if they don't have an availability slot that intersects with the suggestion time window for at least an hour.


### Code Refactoring

- **Renamed validation modules:**
  - `availabilitySlotsValidation.ts` to `availabilitySlotValidation.ts`.
  - `suggestionsValidation.ts` to `suggestionValidation.ts`.
- Improved the efficiency of validating the hangoutMember details in `suggestions.ts` and `availabilitySlots.ts`.


### Bug Fixes

- Fixed a missing placeholder in `availabilitySlots.ts`.


## [0.2.3] (2024-08-20)

### Features

- Successfully creating a hangout now also returns the hangoutMemberID.
- Updated the string validation for suggestions titles and descriptions:
  - Title:
    - Allowed characters: English alphanumerical characters, whitespace, parentheses, exclamation marks, question marks, fullstops, and hyphens.
    - Double whitespace not allowed
    - Length: Between 3 and 40 (inclusive).
  - Description:
    - Allowed characters: All printable ASCII characters, line breaks, and the euro symbol.
    - Length: Between 10 and 500 (inclusive).
- Improved the validation of user display names to now prevent double spaces.
- Improved authToken and hangoutID validation.
- **New endpoints:**:
  - POST `suggestions/`: Adds a suggestions.
  - PUT `suggestions/`: Updates an existing suggestion.
  - DELETE `suggestions/`: Deletes a suggestion.
  - DELETE `suggestions/clear`: Deletes all suggestions for its respective hangout member. 


### Code Refactoring

- Slight efficiency improvements for the `availabilitySlots` router.


### Bug Fixes

- Fixed the `availabilitySlots` router not accurately authenticating the requester using their hangoutMemberID.


## [0.2.2] (2024-08-18)

### Features

- Reworked the `hangouts` table:
  - Renamed `availability_period`, `suggestions_period`, and `voting_period` to `availability_step`, `suggestions_step`, and `voting_step`.
  - The data types for these steps is now `BIGINT` and they represent days in milliseconds.
  - Renamed `step_timestamp` to `current_step_timestamp`.
  - Added `next_step_timestamp`. It represents the timestamp when the next step is supposed to start.
  - Replaced `concluded_on_timestamp` with `conclusion_timestamp`. It represents the timestamp of when all 3 hangouts steps are concluded, and is updated dynamically whenever steps are changed or progressed.
  - Added `is_concluded` as a boolean.
  - Hangout steps are now all limited between 1 and 7 days.
  - These changes were implemented to help with ensuring availability slots added by the user are not set before the hangout is concluded, which would render them pointless.
- Renamed the `availability` table to `availability_slots` and completely reworked it:
  - Slots now consists of a starting and ending timestamp to represent both the date and time.
  - Slots can't start before their respective hangout's conclusion timestamp.
    - If a hangout's conclusion timestamp is updated for whatever reason, any availability slots starting before the new conclusion timestamp are automatically deleted.
  - Slots can't start beyond a year from their respective hangout's conclusion timestamp.
    - If a hangout's conclusion timestamp is updated for whatever reason, any availability slots starting a year beyond the new conclusion timestamp are automatically deleted.
  - Slots can't be shorter than an hour or longer than 24 hours.
  - Slots can't intersect.
  - Slots can't connect. The start of a slot has to at least be a minute after the end of a nearby slot.
  - Hangout members are limited to a maximum of 10 availability slots.
- **New endpoints:**
  - POST `availabilitySlots/`: Adds an availability slot.
  - PUT `availabilitySlots/`: Updates an existing availability slot.
  - DELETE `availabilitySlots/`: Deletes an availability slot.
  - DELETE `availabilitySlots/clear`: Deletes all availability slots for its respective hangout member. 
- **New cron jobs:**
  - `progressHangouts()`:
    - Progresses unconcluded hangouts to their respective next step.
    - Runs every minute.


### Bug Fixes

- Fixed a few spots where transactions weren't rolled back before a failed response is returned.
- Fixed a few `LEFT JOIN` statements indirectly acting as an `INNER JOIN` due to how their `WHERE` constraint was constructed.


## [0.2.1] (2024-08-12)

### Features

- Implemented a limit of 30 ongoing hangouts an account can be included in at any given time.
- Password recovery attempts now suspend the request for an hour after 3 failed attempts have been made.
- Email update requests now inform the user of the remaining time before a new request can be made, after 3 failed attempts have been made.
- **New cron jobs:**
  - `removeUnverifiedAccounts()`:
    - Removes accounts left unverified 20 minutes after they've been created.
    - Runs every minute.
  - `removeExpiredRecoveryRequests()`:
    - Removes account recovery requests if an hour has passed since they were created.
    - Runs every minute.
  - `removeExpiredEmailUpdateRequests()`:
    - Removes email update requests if a day has passed since they were created.
    - Runs every minute.
  - `deleteMarkedAccounts()`:
    - Completely deletes account marked for deletion for longer than 48 hours.
    - Runs every hour.
- Updated the account deletion email template to now specify that the account will be fully deleted after 48 hours.


### Code Refactoring

- Ditched the use of environmental variables for the hangout member limit.


## [0.2.0] (2024-08-09)

### Features

- Reworked how authTokens are added to the `Accounts` and `Guests` table:
  - Once the row is inserted, the authToken is updated to have `_userID` at the end, where the userID is the primary, auto-generated, `account_id` or `guest_id`.
  - This ensures authTokens, on the extremely unlikely chance of a duplicate being generated, are always unique without the need to handle potential insertion issues with a recursive functions, and also makes app logic way simpler since the user's ID is now appended to their authToken.
- Reworked how hangout ID's are generated by appending `_[timestamp]` at the end.
  - This makes the generation of a duplicate hangout ID astronomically low, as two identical 32-character long IDs need to be generated and inserted at the same exact milliseconds.
  - Client side code will still handle this unlikely event and retry the request.
- A new authToken is now generated if an account is locked.
- Sign in attempts are now rejected before password validation of the account is unverified.
- Failing to update the email due to providing the incorrect verification code now suspends the process for 24 hours, and sends an email to the   account's registered email warning them of the potentially suspicious activity.
- Hangout leaders no longer need to provide the hangout password when changing it to a new one, or making a major change to the hangout.
- Cancelling an account's deletion now generates a new authToken instead of just un-marking the previous one.
- Added a `GLOBAL_HANGOUT_MEMBER_LIMIT` environmental variable to dynamically update the limit if needed without refactoring the code base.
- Changing a hangout's member limit now uses a transaction to set a lock and prevent hangout members from being removed or added before the new limit is applied or denied.
- Removed `availability.ts`, `suggestions.ts`, and `voting.ts`, as they need to be full reworked in future patches.
- Completely removed all the modules in `services/` as they're no longer used.
- All emails now include the user's display name to make them more personalized.


### Code Refactoring

- Vastly improved type-checking, safety, and overall code structure in all the routers.
- Renamed all the tables in the database to now follow the `snake_case` naming standard to better differentiate database variables in the code, and help with some dynamic queries.
- Renamed the `/details/steps/progress` endpoint to `/details/steps/progressForward` to avoid potential confusion.


### Bug Fixes

- Fixed an incorrectly formed if-statement for checking if a valid hangout ID was provided in `/details/steps/progressForward`
- Fixed a few missing transaction rollback statements.

## [0.1.11] (2024-07-30)

### Features

- Added a `username` column to the `Accounts` table schema.
- Removed `friends_id_string` column from the `Accounts` table schema.
- Removed GET `accounts/` endpoint.
- **New tables:**
  - `FriendRequests`: Tracks pending friend requests.
  - `Friendships`: Tracks a user's friends.
- **New endpoints:**
  - POST `accounts/friends/requests/send`: Sends a friend request.
  - PUT `accounts/friends/requests/accept`: Accepts a friend request.
  - DELETE `accounts/friends/requests/decline`: Declines a friend request.
  - DELETE `accounts/friends/remove`: Removes a friend from a user's friend list.
- If a starts their account deletion process, all hangouts where they're the leader are deleted, and they automatically leave any hangout they're a member of.
  - Users will be informed of this before confirming.

### Bug Fixes

- Fixed an issue with incrementing the count of recovery emails sent.
- Fixed updating an account's password through the `details/updatePassword` endpoint not generating a new authToken.
  - Next patch will deal with updating the hangout member rows the user was a part of.
- Fixed the start of the email update process not checking if the email is in use first.

## [0.1.10] (2024-07-27)

### Features

- Brought back the `guest.ts` router.
- Renamed `user_name` in the `Accounts` and `Guests` tables to `display_name`.
- Guests now have to create a unique username apart from choosing their display name.
  - This is meant to help with guests logging into their accounts.
- **New endpoints:**
  - PUT `hangoutMembers/details/leaveHangout`: Leaves the hangout.
    - If the user has a guest account, it's automatically deleted.
    - If the user is the leader, a new leader is randomly assigned.
    - If the user is a leader and the only member, the hangout is automatically deleted.
  - POST `guests/signIn`: Used to sign in a guest into their respective hangout.


## [0.1.9] (2024-07-25)

### Features

- **New endpoints:**
  - PUT `hangouts/details/changeLimit`: Changes the hangout member limit.
  - PUT `hangouts/details/steps/changePeriods`: Changes availability, suggestions, or voting periods for a given hangouts.
  - PUT `hangouts/details/steps/progress`: Progresses the hangout to the next step immediately.
  - PUT `hangouts/details/members/kick`: Kicks a hangout member.
  - PUT `hangouts/details/members/transferLeadership`: Transfers the hangout leadership.
  - DELETE `hangouts/`: Deletes hangout.
- Added `step_timestamp` to the `Hangouts` table schema.
- Altered `current_step` in the `Hangouts` table schema to now be between 1 and 4 (inclusive), with 4 referring to a completed hangout.


### Code Refactoring

- Improved the structure and consistency of SQL queries throughout all routers. 


## [0.1.8] (2024-07-22)

### Features

- Reworked how guest accounts are created.
  - They're now only created when a user wants to join or create a hangout.
  - Removed the `guests.ts` router.
- Added `routerServices.ts`.
- **New endpoints:**
  - PUT `hangouts/details/updatePassword`: Updates the hangout password.
  - POST `hangoutMembers//create/accountMember`: Creates a hangout member from an existing account.
  - POST `hangoutMembers//create/guestMember`: Creates a guest account then a corresponding hangout member.
  - POST `hangouts//create/accountLeader`: Creates a hangout and a leader hangout member using the user's account.
  - POST `hangouts//create/guestLeader`: Creates a hangout, guest account, and a leader hangout member using the guest account.
- **Removed endpoints:**
  - POST `hangoutMembers/`.
  - POST `guests/`.
- Removed the option to approve members from hangouts.
- Added an option to set up a password for hangouts.
- Reworked how a hangout member is created to now check for a potential password.

### Code Refactoring

- Removed `hangoutServices.ts` and implemented its logic directly where needed.
- Moved `emailServices.ts` into `email` under `util`.

### Bug Fixes

- Fixed the endpoint for creating guests checking for a valid password using `isValidEmailString()` instead of `isValidNewPasswordString()`.


## [0.1.7] (2024-07-15)

### Features

- **New endpoints:**
  - POST `accounts/details/updateEmail/start`: Initiates the email update process.
  - PUT `accounts/details/updateEmail/confirm`: Updates the user's email and generates a new authToken.
  - PUT `accounts/details/updateName`: Handles user name changes.
- Enhanced the appearance and phrasing of email templates.
- Renamed endpoint `accounts/details/changePassword` to `accounts/details/updatePassword`.
- Endpoint `accounts/details/updatePassword` now tracks failed sign in attempts and locks the account after reaching the limit.
- Simplified token generation by removing unique identifiers, except for account, guest, and hangout tokens.
  - Added `generateUniqueToken()` for basic token generation.
  - Introduced `isValidToken()` in `userValidation.ts` for validating basic tokens.
- Updated the recovery process to allow up to 3 recovery emails before reaching the limit.
- Added a `marked_for_deletion` column to the `Accounts` table for better readability and logic.
- Recovery requests now generate a new authToken to enhance account security.

### Bug Fixes

- Fixed missing `await` keyword in transaction connections within `accounts.ts`.
- Corrected endpoints in `accounts.ts` to increment failed sign-in attempts on incorrect password entries.
- Addressed several unnoticed bugs in `accounts.ts`.

### Code Refactoring

- Refactored `accounts.ts` for improved efficiency and readability.
- Consolidated modules in `util/generators` into `tokenGenerator.ts`, except for `generatePlaceholders.ts`, which is now at the root level of the `util` directory.
  - Removed `generators` directory.


## [0.1.6] (2024-07-11)

### Features

- Added a listener for DELETE requests to `accounts/deletion/start`, which will start the deletion process.
  - This marks the account for deletion, and the account behaves fully as if it is deleted.
  - Deleting the account will take place within 48-72 hours from when the request is made, through a a cron job which will be added in a future patch.
  - The user will receive an email with a link containing a cancellation token meant as a last chance to cancel the process.
- Added a listener for PUT requests to `accounts/deletion/cancel`, which will cancel the process if a valid cancellation token is provided.
- Added a listener for PUT requests to `accounts/details/changePassword`, which will handle password change requests by the user.


### Code Refactoring

- Fully refactored `accounts.ts` to improve error handling, logic, and readability.
  - It no longer uses `accountServices.ts` or `passwordServices.ts`.
  - Transactions have been added where necessary.
- Removed `accountServices.ts`.
- Removed `passwordServices.ts`.
- Renamed the `accounts/recovery/sendEmail` endpoint to `accounts/recovery/start`
- Refactored the `accounts/recovery/start` endpoint to now include the account ID in the recovery email.
- Refactored the `accounts/deletion/start` endpoint to now include the account ID in the deletion email.
- Renamed `password_hash` column in both `Accounts` and `Guests` to `hashed_password` to avoid potential confusion.


### Documentation Changes

- Slightly improved the phrasing in last patch's notes.


## [0.1.5] (2024-07-09)

### Code Refactoring

- Renamed `authTokens.ts` to `generateAuthTokens.ts`.
- Moved all code/token generation modules to a new `generators` directory under `util`.
- Renamed `failed_signin_attempts` in the `Accounts` table to `failed_sign_in_attempts` for consistency.
- Successful sign in attempts to now reset the number of failed sign in attempts back to 0.
- Added `AccountRecovery` table to the database.
- Removed `recovery_email_timestamp` which is now redundant with the new `AccountRecovery`table.
- Added `generateRecoveryToken.ts`.
- Added a listener for POST requests to `accounts/recovery/sendEmail`, which will send a recovery email to start the recovery process.
  - The request fails if a `RecoveryAccount` row with the user ID in question is found.
  - A cron job, which will be introduced in a later patch, will handle the removal of `RecoveryAccount` rows after a set period of time.
- Added a listener for PUT requests to `accounts/recovery/updatePassword`, which will validate the recovery token and update the password.

### Bug Fixes

- Fixed a typo in the 500 error message in `createAccount()` under `accounts.ts`.


### Code Refactoring

- Renamed the functions under `userValidation.ts` to now better reflect that they validate the structure of the string itself, without making any requests to the database.
- Refactored how the functions in `userValidation.ts` and `accountServices.ts` are imported in `accounts.ts` to now use namespaces.
- Moved all modules responsible for generating codes or tokens to a `generators` directory under `util`.


## [0.1.4] (2024-07-07)

### Features

- Updated how the count for verification emails sent is incremented in the database to reduce unnecessary complexity.
- Updated `isValidEmail()`, `isValidName()`, and `isValidPassword()` in `userValidation.ts` to now ensure that the argument passed in is of type string.
- Reworked `createAccount()` in `accounts.ts` to now return the user ID, instead of the authToken, which should only be supplied once the account is verified.
- Reworked the `/resendVerificationCode` endpoint in `accounts.ts` to now validate the request based on the user ID.
  - The router now listens for a POST request instead of GET for this endpoint.
- Added `isValidVerificationCode()` under `userValidation.ts`.
- Added `incrementFailedVerificationAttempts()` under `accountServices.ts`.
- Added `deleteAccount()` under `accountServices.ts`.
- Added `verifyAccount` as a POST endpoint in the `accounts.ts` router.
- Added `/signIn` as a POST endpoint in the `accounts.ts` router.
- Added `/` as a GET endpoint in the `accounts.ts`.
  - This request, for now, only fetches the account's name and friends ID string.

### Bug Fixes

- Fixed a leftover hardcoded dummy authToken in `accounts.ts`, which wasn't removed prior to pushing last patch.

### Code Refactoring

- Reworked the `Accounts` table to now only rely on the number of `failed_signing_attempts` to determine if the account is locked, effectively skipping an unnecessary step.


## [0.1.3] (2024-07-06)

### Features

- Increased idle timeout for pool connections from 1 to 5 minutes.
- Increased the pool connections limit from 20 to 50.
- Moved the authToken logic for all endpoints to check for it in the `Authorization` header as a `Bearer` token.
- Added `initTransporter.ts`.
- Added `emailServices.ts`.
- Added `emailTemplates.ts`.
- Restructured the form of the `Accounts` table in the database.
- Added verification code email logic when signing up.
- Added verification code resending logic to `accounts.ts`, which now listens to GET requests made to `/resendVerificationCode`.
- Added `accountServices.ts`.
- Added `generatePlaceHolders.ts` to help make `mysql2` execute statements more readable and less error-prone.
- Added `generateVerificationCode.ts`.
  - Generated codes are 6 characters long, and only use uppercase letters and numbers, with the letter `O` being excluded.

### Code Refactoring

- Refactored some of the logic in existent routers for better readability and efficiency.


### Bug Fixes

- Fixed static files in `app.ts` being incorrectly pointed to the `public` directory. 


### Build Changes

- Added a `.cpanel.yml` file to automate the deployment process.
- Added `global.d.ts`.
  - The file is empty for now, but might be used down the line.


## [0.1.2] (2024-07-01)

### Features

- Added `suggestions.ts` as a router to handle suggestion-related requests.
- Added `suggestionServices.ts`.
- Added `suggestionValidation.ts`.
- Added `votes.ts` as a router to handle suggestion-related requests.
- Added `voteServices.ts`.
- Added `add_vote.sql` as reference to the `add_vote` procedure now in the database.
- Added `validate_auth_token.sql` as a reference to the `validate_auth_token.sql` function now in the database.
  - Both the procedure and function above are not used currently within the app. They will be tested at some point in the future to measure how significant of a performance improvement they provide, and will subsequently either be implemented further or removed.
- Added `logUnexpectedError.ts` which will be used if procedures end up being implemented for monitoring purposes.


## [0.1.1] (2024-06-27)

### Features

- Improved the regex used for testing a valid 24-hour format in `timePicker.ts` to make it more robust.
- Added `timeSlotValidation.ts` to validate time slot strings in the backend.
- Added a `member_limit` column in the `Hangouts` table and implemented the functionality.
  - The column's value can be between 2 and 20 (inclusive).
  - Future patches will reflect this one the front end.
- Removed the indexes set for `created_on_timestamp` and `completed_on_timestamp` in the `Hangouts` table.
- Added `undefinedValuesDetected()` under `requestValidation.ts` to detect invalid request data and return an intentionally vague 400 response.
  - This is only a part of the validation process, and is meant to prevent bad actors from guessing the correct request structure.
- Added `authTokenServices.ts` and `hangoutServices.ts`.
- Renamed `passwordHash.ts` to `passwordServices.ts` and moved it to the services directory.
- Renamed `hashPassword()` to `getHashedPassword()` and reworked the function into a service that takes in the Response object.
- Added `Availability.ts` as a router to handle availability-related requests.


### Code Refactoring

- Reworked the general structure of routers to make them more readable and efficient.
- Reworked the `HangoutMembers` table to now store authTokens instead of the user's type and ID.
- Removed `isValidUserType()` from `accountValidation.ts` as it's no longer needed.
- Changed `account_name` in the `Accounts` table and `guest_name` in the `Guests` table to now both be `user_name`, to simplify data fetching queries down the line, and avoid redundancies.


### Bug Fixes

- Fixed the ability to set multiple hangout members as a leader for the same hangout.
- Fixed `includesExistingSlots()` in `timePicker.ts` not converting the dates to numbers before executing the comparisons.
  - JavaScript's Lexicographical comparison was automatically used (and worked so far), but the function now properly converts strings into numbers to avoid unexpected behavior.
- Fixed responses resulting from request keys 


### Documentation Changes

- Removed redundancies from the changelog, and rephrased some of the patch notes.


## [0.1.0] (2024-06-21)

### Build Changes

- Backend typescript build process implemented.
  - Production-ready code will be created into `dist` in the root level.


### Features

- Added `db.ts` to handle the connection to the MariaDB database and create a connection pool.
- Added `app.ts` and set up the following routes: `/api/hangouts`, `/api/accounts`, `/api/guests`, `api/hangoutMembers`.
- Added `accounts.ts`.
  - POST requests to `/accounts/signup` are meant for creating an account.
  - Validation functionality to be implemented in a future patch.
- Added `guests.ts`.
  - POST requests to `/guests/` are meant for creating a guest user.
  - Guest accounts are created for their respective hangout, and are automatically removed once the hangout is concluded.
  - Guests will have to provide a name and a password for their respective hangout to ensure proper identification within the hangout.
- Duplicate account and guest names within the same hangout is allowed, and the front-end should help distinguish two people with the same name. This logic might change in a future patch if it proves ineffective.
- Added `hangouts.ts`.
  - POST requests to `/hangouts/` are meant for creating a hangout.
  - Hangouts are automatically removed from the database upon being concluded.
- Added `hangoutMembers.ts`.
  - POST requests to `/hangoutMembers/` are meant for creating data linking an account or a guest user to a specific hangout within the database.
  - Hangout member data will also specify whether a user is the leader of the hangout.
- Added `generateAuthToken.ts`, which has two functions responsible for generating authTokens for accounts and guest users.
- Added `generateHangoutID.ts`, which is responsible for generating a 32-character hangout ID.
- Added `userValidation.ts`, which contains validation functions used during the creation of accounts and guest users.
- Added `hangoutValidation.ts`, which contains validation functions used during the creation of a hangout.
- Added `passwordHash.ts`, which contains a function to hash and salt passwords before returning it, using the `bcrypt` library.

### Bug Fixes

- Fixed `__datePicker.html` and `__timePicker.html` not being removed despite last patches' notes stating they were.


### Code Refactoring

- Added missing `RegExp` type in `validatePassword()` under `hangoutAccount.ts`.
- Names no longer get mutated to lowercase when added to the state in `validateAccountName()`.
  - Changed the regex to no longer accept whitespace in general, but rather a space.
  - The input value is now also trimmed before being tested against the regex, to prevent a single space value passing.
  - Added a note above the name input to express to the user that the input is case-sensitive.


## [0.0.10] (2024-06-05)

### Features

- Added a getter for the sliderValue in `SliderInput.ts`.
- Moved the hangout account creation step in `hangoutForm.ts` and `create-hangout.html` to now be last. 
- `hangoutForm.ts` completed apart from the final step to persist the data, which will be coming in future steps.
- Added `hangoutFormConfig.ts`  to control the sliders in the configuration step in `create-hangout.html`.
- Added `hangoutAvailability.ts` `modules/createHangout/` to control the availability step in `create-hangout.html`.
- Added `hangoutAccount.ts` to control the group leader credentials, and trigger the final event to begin processing the form.
- Added `hangoutFormState.ts` to hold the state of the above-mentioned modules.
- Slight adjustments to `datePicker.ts` and `timePicker.ts`.


### Bug Fixes

- Removed leftover console log in `LoadingModal.ts`.
- Fixed the password reveal icon's position changing if the error message is multi-lined.


### Style Changes

- Made general, fine-tuning changes in `main.scss`.


### Build Changes

- Removed `__datePicker.html` and `__timePicker.html` templates, as they've been implemented in `create-hangout.html` and can be retrieved again that way


## [0.0.9] (2024-06-03)

### Features

- Amended some of the text in `index.html`.
- Added `timePicker.ts`.
  - Added a temporary `__timePicker.html` under `src/html/`.
- Rephrased some of the content in `index.html`.
- Added `ErrorSpan.ts`.
- Added `LoadingModal.ts`.
- Implemented the UI for the 3rd step in `create-hangout.html`.


### Style Changes

- Simple additions to `tailwind.config.js`.


### Code Refactoring

- Changed any occurrence of `setAttribute('disabled', 'disabled')` to `setAttribute('disabled', '')` throughout the app for better readability and consistency.


### Bug Fixes

- Replaced any use of `isNan()` with `Number.isNaN()` to avoid any potential unexpected behavior down the line.
- Specified touch events in `SliderInput.ts` to be passive to avoid potential scrolling issues.
- Fixed keyboard navigation being possible on sliders controlled by `SliderInput.ts` while in the process of being dragged.
  - This didn't negatively affect the state or cause unexpected behavior with the final result, but simply isn't user intuitive.


### Build Changes

- Changed the target in `tsconfig.js` to ES2015 (ES6) instead of ES5.

## [0.0.8] (2024-05-26)

### Features

- Created `SliderInput.ts` to handle custom `range` inputs throughout the app.
- Further UI elements added to `create-hangout.html`.


### Style Changes

- Changed the shape of the toggle button in the theme switcher from a circle to a pill.


### Bug Fixes

- Removed leftover date picker HTML in `create-hangout.html`.
  - A temporary template `__datePicker.html` has been added for now until the date picker is used permanently in of the HTML files.


### Documentation Changes

- Added an extra point about the `datePicker.ts` module which was not noted in the last patch.


## [0.0.7] (2024-05-23)

### Features

- Added more UI elements in `create-hangout.html`.
- Added `hangoutForms.ts`.
  - It should handle the form navigation, as well as the form submission later down the line.
- Added `datePicker.ts`.
  - This module will be used throughout the app where needed, and will provide a consistent way for users to select a date and for the app to store them.
  - The module dispatches a custom event with a payload to the window when a date is selected.
  - The date picker doesn't allow picking any dates in the past, or dates beyond the two following months to the current one.
- Added `popup.ts` to handle popup messages throughout the app where needed.


### Build Changes

- Removed `_utils.scss` and `media-queries.scss` completely.
  - Any extra/complicated styling will take place in `main.scss` to avoid over-complicating future styling changes.
- Removed `_variables.scss` and moved the font definitions to `main.scss` considering their simplicity.


## [0.0.6] (2024-05-14)

### Features

- Added `botNavbar.ts`.
- Added a sign out button in the top navbar when a user is logged in.
- The page the user is on is not gently highlighted in the bottom navbar.
- Added `create-hangout.html` and part of the UI has been implemented.
- Added `createHangout.ts`.
- Added `revealPassword.ts`.

### Bug Fixes

- Fixed hovering inconsistencies with the theme switcher.


### Build Changes

- Removed babel from the dependency list as it won't be used in the build process.
- Changed the build target in `tsconfig.json` to `ES5`.
- Implemented `terser-webpack-plugin` into the build process to minify the resulting JavaScript from the build process.
- Added an HTML template `__template.html` for future HTML files.
  - This template won't be included in the build process.
- `_utils.scss` and `_media-queries.scss` will be removed for now, as it seems they won't be needed in this project.
  - `_variables.scss` will continue to hold the font family information and imports.


### Style Changes

- Removed an unused linter config file that was accidentally left in the client directory.
- Renamed the `components` directory in `src/ts/` to `modules` as it's more fitting.


### Documentation Changes

- Removed unnecessary line breaks in the changelog.


## [0.0.5] (2024-05-11)

### Features

- Added the logo as a favicon.
- TypeScript introduced to the project.
  - Previous vanilla JavaScript code has been removed.
- Rewrote `themeSwitcher.js` in TypeScript, and it's now `themeSwitcher.ts`.
- Rewrote `index.js` in TypeScript, and it's now `index.ts`.
- Added `Cookies.ts` to handle all browser cookie manipulation.
- Added `topNavbar.ts`.


### Build Changes

- Updated how assets are built in `webpack.config.js`.
- The build process is now integrated with TypeScript.


### Bug Fixes

- Fixed a simple misspell in the homepage.


### Code Refactoring

- Rephrased a sentence in the homepage.


## [0.0.4] (2024-05-07)

### Features

- Homepage layout full implemented.
  - Links and further functionality to be added later.


## [0.0.3] (2024-05-03)

### Features

- Theme switcher button is now keyboard navigable.
- Bottom navbar implemented.
  - The navbar is only available on smaller screens (800px or smaller).
- Hero section implemented.


## [0.0.2] (2024-05-01)

### Features

- Desktop navbar added.
- Them switcher implemented.
